Kruise rollout addon whole story (#723)
oam-dev/kubevela.io: docs/reference/addons/kruise-rollout.md

---
title: kruise-rollout
---

> Kruise Rollout addon provides incremental delivery capabilities for Native Deployment, Kruise CloneSet, e.g. Canary Release, Blue-green Release, A/B Testing, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kruise Rollout addon provides incremental delivery capabilities for Kubernetes Deployment, Statefulset and OpenKruise CloneSet. You can choose from different delivery strategies such as Canary Release, Blue-green Release, A/B Testing, etc.
```

For more details, please refer to: [Kruise Rollout](https://github.com/openkruise/rollouts/blob/master/docs/getting_started/introduction.md).

This article focuses on how to implement Canary Release using Kruise Rollout addon.

## Requirements

1. Install Kruise Rollout
```shell
% vela addon enable kruise-rollout
enable addon by local dir: addons/kruise-rollout
Addon: kruise-rollout enabled Successfully.
```

2. Please make sure one of the [ingress controllers](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/) is available in your Kubernetes cluster.
If not yet, you can install one in your cluster by enable the [nginx-ingress-controller](./nginx-ingress-controller) addon:

```shell

> vela addon enable ingress-controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vela addon enable ingress
```

```

Please refer [this](./nginx-ingress-controller) to get the gateway's access address.

> ## First Deployment

Reviewer: 这里已经在前面讲过的就 ref 过去就行，减少重复文字。

Reviewer: 可以介绍一下 addon 参数之类的，前面教程没有的，包括 trait 的字段？

Author: fixed
